now it's time for a little lesson
Susan shady is a cooking instructor and
she and her husband used to own the
polonaise restaurant in South Utica now
she teaches people how to cook hi I'm
Susan Sadie and I operate Susan's
cooking school how do you on my head
thrown back because she says if I do it
like this is how you look like food
this is Darius's Susan's husband and
he'll be assisting as we make tomato and
cheese pierogi one popular item that was
on our menu so the first thing we're
gonna do is make the filling and I like
to use onions cooked in butter because
what's better than onions cooked in
butter
so we'll melt this butter which is looks
like a lot but it's a lot of filling
that we're making and then we'll add
these onions and we'll cook them just
until they're tender but not browned so
that they're soft enough and but you
don't see the little dark specks of
onion in the filling so our butter is
ready just add our onions so with a
butter ready to go the onions added in
they will be sauteed just until they are
soft and while Darrius magically handles
the sauteing of the onions will head
over for the making of the filling and
the dough with Susan okay so here is our
ingredients for our pierogi dough I have
my flour in here we're just using
all-purpose flour all-purpose unbleached
flour and I'm going to add my salt and
what I like to do is mix my eggs with
the water ahead of time so it makes it
much easier to make the dough
so now I'm going to just stir this in
and what I'm doing is incorporating all
of my moistening all my flowers so that
when I go to knead it it's it's much
easier to knead that salt in there now
if when I'm making this and this takes
just experience to know if the dough
feels too wet I can add a little bit
more flour if it feels too dry I can add
a little bit more water but don't add
too much you don't want a wet dough
right you know usually this amount works
pretty good but if you're making in the
summer when it's humid it might be too
wet you might need to add a little more
okay yeah usually I mean usually in my
pasta there's more eggs to water than in
this this a little more water than eggs
but yeah it's very it is a pasta really
it's a pasta so now that's ready to need
I don't need it very long for it's not
like when I make breads so this is I
just like to knead it for about a minute
put just a little flour just to prevent
it from sticking and when you're
kneading dough just kind of roll with
the palm of your hand and fold over and
I always tell my students like when
we're making breads and stuff especially
women whose arms and hands might not be
as strong to use your shoulders you know
to get but right behind it so I just
want to make it smooth
all right if you make your own pierogi
and eat them you'll lose weight because
this is a workout it's best to let this
rest for about ten or fifteen minutes so
that the gluten and the flour can relax
and be able to roll out the dough
without it bouncing back and okay it's
stretching so I just cover it with a
little flour I don't want to mix this
flour in but just to prevent it from
sticking
next up time to make the filling okay
our onions are already there they're
tender but you know not browned although
it's not a crime if you do brown the
relevants not going to hurt anything so
we'll take these over to put to our
potatoes and add them directly to our
potatoes potatoes are mashed with a
ricer so that everything is completely
imagine no lumps and now we can add the
rest of our ingredients I have our salt
and pepper here and Bill you won't
having that cheese please Brad and this
is about a cup of ricotta cheese ready
and that's all there is to our filling I
will just mix this up
so as Susan mixes up the filling her
husband Darius gives us a little lesson
on the polish language and pierogi he
says we're mixed up PA doggy not P a dog
is a very plural it's already plural so
once again we as Americans American eyes
so if you're having pierogies for dinner
you're gonna I'm gonna have a pair of
yes so you learn something new every day
so we'll take a hunk of our dough here
and first I like to just spread it out
with the heel of my hand I'm just you
want to make sure that your dough is not
sticking to your counter you don't want
to use excessive flour but you want to
make sure that you you're not gluing it
to your table then it causes problems
I'm just gonna roll it to an even
thickness in you know the thickness is
can vary if you like a lot of dough you
can roll yours a little thicker but I
would say I probably roll it to about an
eighth of an inch okay just keep lifting
it and make sure it's not sticking so
you roll your dough out until it's nice
and thin and then you grab your Hiroki
tool from quick cut and mohawk and you
cut out your circles plant your cutter
quick twist and a little flick helps to
separate it
and then pick up your scraps because
these can be used to make more POV and
we're going to use them to make our
dessert today also okay I'm going to
take my scooper let's see it's nice and
cold and the butter in there gets firm
too in it and see how it's holding its
shape which really helps when you go to
fill these so each disc gets a scoop of
the filling and then it's time for a
little bit of finesse alright so take
put a little flour in your fingertips
there give them so they won't stick
that's alright don't worry about it
that's okay and are you right-handed I
hope I can do it together okay so put
let these sit on your right hand then
take your index finger of the other hand
and your thumb and kind of put this
finger down to just hold it and then
just kind of or two and just stretch it
over the top first yeah and try not to
squish it like that yeah that's all
right
and then gently push a little bit to the
side and then do one side that's it and
then do the other side a little bit yeah
so that you have don't wanto and then
you can actually stretch the dough over
a little bit so that that way you don't
have the filling in the way okay now so
you don't want a fish-shaped Carosi so
now you can know you can you can kind of
plump it up and then squeeze it up so
that you know you can kind of shape it a
little more and after you're done okay
you ready try another one I am alright
here no there that's good another thing
you can do is if you're so dozle sticky
you can actually slide the bottom on a
little flour to it and then it'll help
and you might have your own method you
know mine works for me but you know
whatever works but basically you want to
seal the top first and if you can
actually stretch the stovetops hmm
and then then do the sides and anyway it
helps keep your shape also
that's it
and then the reason again that you don't
want the filling stuck in betweens
they'll open up in the water and you
have a mess so after you're all said and
done it's time to boil when they come to
the top and they float they're basically
done then they go to the frying pan
along with onions and butter and there
you have it a little sour cream with it
as well understand yeah or a lot of sour
cream
that is awesome
is so good
and it's so different than but I love
promise Hiroki I thought so I'll show
you see there you go
PA ragi not pure doggies it's very
plural so there you have it delicious
authentic homemade pierogi not pirozhkis
PA ragi not pierre-auguste is very
plural
you